# Project 1: Molecular dynamics simulation of Argon atoms by Mees Wortelboer and Daniel van Bemmelen

This repository contains a computationally efficient python code to simulate interacting particles using Molecular dynamics. It does so using the Velocity-Verlet algorithm for time propagation and the Lennard Jones potential as intermolecular potential. Observables like the Verial Theorem, Pair correlation function, a mean squared distance calculation and the Lebowitz theorem where added to determine the state of the system. The simulation is ready to be used for studying thermodynamic property's of for example Argon and in this readme a short overview is given on how you can get started. 

The folder [Molecular_Dynamics](Project-1_mwortelboer/Molecular_Dynamics) contains the important code files that are needed to start a simulation. To initialize a simulation the file [execution.py](../execution.py) is used to set the simulation parameters. This file then calls [initial_conditions.py](../initial_conditions.py) to generate the initial conditions and [simulation.py](../simulation.py) to compute the time propagation and the important data for the observables. This important data is then put into the folder carrying the simulation name within the mother folder [Simulation_Data](Project-1_mwortelboer/Simulation_Data). 

To visualize the observables the file [visualisation.py](../visualisation.py) contains the functions to do so. These functions are used in the notebook [simulation_visualisation.ipynb](../visualisation.ipynb) where all observables are displayed for a given simulation. Finally, figures generated by the notebook are then exported to the folder [Figures](Project-1_mwortelboer/Figures). 

This code was developed as part of a course on Computational Physics on the Techincal University of Delft. We, Mees Wortelboer and Daniel van Bemmelen, built the code under supervision of Dr. M.T. Wimmer and Dr. A.R. Akhmerov. For any questions the mail address D.J.M.vanbemmelen@student.tudelt.nl can be used to contact us directly.  